Documentation: Sequences (#791)
ocaml/v3.ocaml.org: data/tutorials/ds_05_seq.md

immediately available. A `unit` value has to be supplied to recover it, which is called “unfreezing.” However, unfreezing only gives access to the tip of the
icicle, since the second argument of `Seq.Cons` is a function too.

Frozen-by-function tails explain why sequences may be considered
potentially infinite. Until a `Seq.Nil` value has been found in the sequence,
one can't say for sure if some will ever appear. The sequence could be a stream
of incoming requests in a server, readings from an embedded sensor, or system logs.
All have unforeseeable termination, and it is easier to consider them infinite.

In OCaml, any value `a` of type `t` can be turned into a constant function by
writing `fun _ -> a`, which has type `'a -> t`. When writing `fun () -> a`
instead, we get a function of type `unit -> t`. Such a function is called a
[_thunk_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thunk). Using this terminology, sequence
values are thunks. With the analogy used earlier, `a` is frozen in its thunk.

Here is how to build seemingly infinite sequences of integers:
```ocaml
# let rec ints n : int Seq.t = fun () -> Seq.Cons (n, ints (n + 1))
val ints : int -> int Seq.t = <fun>
```

> The function `ints n` look as if building the infinite sequence

Reviewer: "looks"

$(n; n + 1; n + 2; n + 3;...)$. In reality, since there isn't an infinite
amount of distinct values of type `int`, those sequences don't increase.
When reaching `max_int`, the values will circle down to `min_int`. They are
ultimately periodic.

The OCaml standard library contains a module on sequences called
[`Seq`](/releases/5.0/api/Seq.html). It contains a `Seq.iter` function, which
has the same behaviour as `List.iter`. Writing this:
```ocaml
# Seq.iter print_int (ints 0);;
```

> in an OCaml top-level means “print integers forever,” and you have to type

Reviewer: I would say "press" Ctrl+C

* Sequence consumer: partially applied function parameter
* Sequence producer: partially applied function result

When code dealing with sequences does not behave as expected like if it is
crashing or hanging, there's a fair chance a mistake like in the first
definition of `fibs` was made.

## Sequences for Conversions

Throughout the standard library, sequences are used as a bridge to perform
conversions between many datatypes. For instance, here are the signatures of
some of those functions:
* Lists
  ```ocaml
  val List.of_seq : 'a list -> 'a Seq.t
  val List.to_seq : 'a Seq.t -> 'a list
  ```
* Arrays
  ```ocaml
  val Array.of_seq : 'a array -> 'a Seq.t
  val Array.to_seq : 'a Seq.t -> 'a array
  ```
* Strings
  ```ocaml
  val String.of_seq : string -> char Seq.t
  val String.to_seq : char Seq.t -> string
  ```
Similar functions are also provided for sets, maps, hash tables (`Hashtbl`) and
others (except `Seq`, obviously). When implementing a datatype module, it is
advised to expose `to_seq` and `of_seq` functions.

## Miscellaneous Considerations

There are a couple of related libraries, all providing means to handle large
flows of data:

* Rizo I [Streaming](/p/streaming)

> * Gabriel Radanne [Iter](/p/iter)

Reviewer 2: I'm pretty sure that the library was built by Simon Cruanes and Gabriel Radanne. So I suggest: 

```diff
-  * Gabriel Radanne [Iter](/p/iter)
+  * Simon Cruanes and Gabriel Radanne [Iter](/p/iter)
```

* Jane Street `Base.Sequence`

There used to be a module called [`Stream`](/releases/4.13/api/Stream.html) in
the OCaml standard library. It was
[removed](https://github.com/ocaml/ocaml/pull/10482) in 2021 with the release of
OCaml 4.14. Beware books and documentation written before may still mention it.

> ## Exercices

Reviewer: "Exercises"

---
id: sequences
title: Sequences
description: >

>   Learn about an OCaml's most-used, built-in data types

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Learn about sequences, of OCaml's most-used, built-in data types
```

---
id: sequences
title: Sequences
description: >
  Learn about an OCaml's most-used, built-in data types
category: "data-structures"
date: 2023-01-12T09:00:00-01:00
---

# Sequences

## Prerequisites

| Concept | Status | Documentation | Reference |
|---|---|---|---|
| Basic types | Mandatory | | |
| Functions | Mandatory | | |
| Lists   | Mandatory |   |   |
| Options | Recommended |   |   |

> | Arrays  | Nice to have |   |   |

Reviewer 3: I think we need to upgrade omd to be able to use tables or so? :thinking:

Maybe it's better for now to summarize:

You should be comfortable with writing functions over [lists](https://ocaml.org/docs/lists) and, ideally, understand what an [option](https://ocaml.org/docs/data-types#example-options) is.

---
id: sequences
title: Sequences
description: >
  Learn about an OCaml's most-used, built-in data types
category: "data-structures"
date: 2023-01-12T09:00:00-01:00
---

# Sequences

## Prerequisites

| Concept | Status | Documentation | Reference |
|---|---|---|---|
| Basic types | Mandatory | | |
| Functions | Mandatory | | |
| Lists   | Mandatory |   |   |
| Options | Recommended |   |   |
| Arrays  | Nice to have |   |   |

## Introduction

Sequences look a lot like lists. However from a pragmatic perspective, one
should imagine they may be infinite. That's the key intuition to understanding
and using sequences.

One way to look at a value of type `'a Seq.t` is to consider it as an icicle, a
frozen stream of data. To understand this analogy, consider how sequences are
defined in the standard library:
```ocaml
type 'a node =
  | Nil
  | Cons of 'a * 'a t
and 'a t = unit -> 'a node
```

> This is the mutually recursive definition of two types; `Seq.node` which is
> almost the same as `list`:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This is the mutually recursive definition of two types: `Seq.node`, which is
almost the same as `list`:
```

```ocaml
type 'a list =
  | []
  | (::) of 'a * 'a list
```

> and `Seq.t` which is merely a type alias for `unit -> 'a Seq.node`. The whole

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
and `Seq.t`, which is merely a type alias for `unit -> 'a Seq.node`. The whole
```

> point of this definition is the type of the second argument of `Seq.Cons`, which

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
point of this definition is the second argument's type `Seq.Cons`, which
```

is a function returning a sequence while its `list` counterpart returns a list. Let's
compare the constructors of `list` and `Seq.node`:
1. Empty lists and sequences are defined the same way, a constructor without any
   parameter: `Seq.Nil` and `[]`.
1. Non-empty lists and sequences are both pairs whose former member is a piece

>    of data;

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   of data.
```

> 1. but the latter member, in lists, is a `list` too, while in sequences, it is a

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. However, the latter member in lists is a `list` too, while in sequences, it is a
```

>    function returning a `Seq.node`.

Reviewer 4: Should these all be 1's?

Author: Yes :-) Having only 1's makes numbering automatic. So easier.

> A value of type `Seq.t` is “frozen” because the data it contains isn't
> immediately available, a `unit` value has to be supplied to recover it, and
> that's “unfreezing”. However, unfreezing only gives access to the tip of the
> icicle, since the second argument of `Seq.Cons` is a function too.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A value of type `Seq.t` is “frozen” because the data it contains isn't
immediately available. A `unit` value has to be supplied to recover it, which is called “unfreezing.” However, unfreezing only gives access to the tip of the
icicle, since the second argument of `Seq.Cons` is a function too.
```

> Having frozen-by-function tails explains why sequences may be considered

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Frozen-by-function tails explain why sequences may be considered
```

potentially infinite. Until a `Seq.Nil` value has been found in the sequence,
one can't say for sure if some will ever appear. The sequence could be a stream

> of incoming requests in a server, readings from an embedded sensor or system logs.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
of incoming requests in a server, readings from an embedded sensor, or system logs.
```

> All have unforeseeable termination and it is easier to consider them infinite.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
All have unforeseeable termination, and it is easier to consider them infinite.
```

In OCaml, any value `a` of type `t` can be turned into a constant function by
writing `fun _ -> a`, which has type `'a -> t`. When writing `fun () -> a`
instead, we get a function of type `unit -> t`. Such a function is called a
[_thunk_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thunk). Using this terminology, sequence
values are thunks. With the analogy used earlier, `a` is frozen in its thunk.

Here is how to build seemingly infinite sequences of integers:
```ocaml
# let rec ints n : int Seq.t = fun () -> Seq.Cons (n, ints (n + 1))
val ints : int -> int Seq.t = <fun>
```
The function `ints n` look as if building the infinite sequence
$(n; n + 1; n + 2; n + 3;...)$. In reality, since there isn't an infinite

> amount of distinct values of type `int`, those sequences are not increasing,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
amount of distinct values of type `int`, those sequences don't increase.
```

> when reaching `max_int` the values will circle down to `min_int`. They are

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When reaching `max_int`, the values will circle down to `min_int`. They are
```
It's not clear whether "when reaching..." is a continuation from the sequences not increasing (as in the "those sequences don't increase when reaching `max_int`") or if it goes with the next part, as shown above. Basically, if we cut it into two sentences, does the first sentence end with `max_int` or with "sequences don't increase"?

ultimately periodic.

The OCaml standard library contains a module on sequences called
[`Seq`](/releases/5.0/api/Seq.html). It contains a `Seq.iter` function, which
has the same behaviour as `List.iter`. Writing this:
```ocaml
# Seq.iter print_int (ints 0);;
```

> in an OCaml top-level means: “print integers forever” and you have to type

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
in an OCaml toplevel means “print integers forever,” and you have to type
```
Would it be "the OCaml toplevel," or "an," covering both OCaml and UTop?

`Ctrl-C` to interrupt the execution. Perhaps more interestingly, the following
code is also an infinite loop:
```ocaml
# Seq.iter ignore (ints 0);;
```
But the key point is: it doesn't leak memory.

## Example

The `Seq` module of the OCaml standard library contains the definition of the

> function `Seq.take` which returns a specified number of elements from the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
function `Seq.take`, which returns a specified number of elements from the
```

beginning of a sequence. Here is a simplified implementation:
```ocaml
let rec take n seq () = match seq () with
  | Seq.Cons (x, seq) when n > 0 -> Seq.Cons (x, take (n - 1) seq)
  | _ -> Seq.Nil
```
`take n seq` returns, at most, the `n` first elements of the sequence `seq`. If
`seq` contains less than `n` elements, an identical sequence is returned. In
particular, if `seq` is empty, an empty sequence is returned.

> Observe the first line of `take`, it is the common pattern for recursive

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Observe the first line of `take`. It is the common pattern for recursive
```

functions over sequences. The last two parameters are:

> * a sequence called `seq`;
> * a `unit` value.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* a sequence called `seq`
* a `unit` value
```

When executed, the function begins by unfreezing `seq` (that is, calling `seq

> ()`) and then pattern match to look inside the data made available. However,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
()`) and then pattern matching to look inside the available data. However,
```

this does not happen unless a `unit` parameter is passed to `take`. Writing

> `take 10 seq` does not compute anything, it is a partial application and returns

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
`take 10 seq` does not compute anything; it is a partial application and returns
```

a function needing a `unit` to produce a result.

> This can be used to print integers without looping forever as shown previously:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This can be used to print integers without looping forever, as shown previously:
```

```ocaml
# Seq.filter;;
- : ('a -> bool) -> 'a Seq.t -> 'a Seq.t = <fun>
```
It builds a sequence of elements satisfying a condition.

Using `Seq.filter`, it is possible to make a straightforward implementation of the
[Sieve of Eratosthenes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sieve_of_Eratosthenes).
Here it is:
```ocaml
let rec sieve seq () = match seq () with
  | Seq.Cons (m, seq) -> Seq.Cons (m, sieve (Seq.filter (fun n -> n mod m > 0) seq))
  | seq -> seq
let facts = ints_from 2 |> sieve;;
```

This code can be used to generate lists of prime numbers. For instance, here is
the list of 100 first prime numbers:
```ocaml
# facts |> take 100 |> List.of_seq;;
- : int list =
[2; 3; 5; 7; 11; 13; 17; 19; 23; 29; 31; 37; 41; 43; 47; 53; 59; 61; 67; 71;
 73; 79; 83; 89; 97; 101; 103; 107; 109; 113; 127; 131; 137; 139; 149; 151;
 157; 163; 167; 173; 179; 181; 191; 193; 197; 199; 211; 223; 227; 229; 233;
 239; 241; 251; 257; 263; 269; 271; 277; 281; 283; 293; 307; 311; 313; 317;
 331; 337; 347; 349; 353; 359; 367; 373; 379; 383; 389; 397; 401; 409; 419;
 421; 431; 433; 439; 443; 449; 457; 461; 463; 467; 479; 487; 491; 499; 503;
 509; 521; 523]
```

> The function `sieve` is recursive, in OCaml and common senses: it is defined

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The function `sieve` is recursive in OCaml and common sense. It is defined
```

using the `rec` keyword and calls itself. However, some call that kind of
function [_corecursive_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corecursion). This word
is used to emphasize that, by design, it does not terminate. Strictly speaking,
the sieve of Eratosthenes is not an algorithm either since it does not
terminate. This implementation behaves the same.

## Unfolding Sequences

Standard higher-order iteration functions are available on sequences. For
instance:
* `Seq.iter`
* `Seq.map`
* `Seq.fold_left`

> All those are also available for `Array`, `List` and `Set` and behave

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
All those are also available for `Array`, `List`, and `Set` and behave
```

essentially the same. Observe that there is no `fold_right` function. Since

> OCaml 4.11 there is something which isn't (yet) available on other types:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
OCaml 4.11, there is something which isn't (yet) available on other types:
```

`unfold`. Here is how it is implemented:
```ocaml
let rec unfold f seq () = match f seq with
  | None -> Nil
  | Some (x, seq) -> Cons (x, unfold f seq)
```
And here is its type:
```ocaml
val unfold : ('a -> ('b * 'a) option) -> 'a -> 'b Seq.t = <fun>
```

> Unlike previously mentioned iterators `Seq.unfold` does not have a sequence

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Unlike previously mentioned iterators, `Seq.unfold` does not have a sequence
```

parameter, but a sequence result. `unfold` provides a general means to build
sequences. For instance, `Seq.ints` can be implemented using `Seq.unfold` in a
fairly compact way:
```ocaml
let ints = Seq.unfold (fun n -> Some (n, n + 1));;
```

> As a fun fact, one should observe `map` over sequences can be implemented using

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As a fun fact, one should observe `map` over sequences, as it can be implemented using
```
Currently, the sentence loses some clarity in the middle. I took a stab at what I think you meant, but if it's incorrect, clarify it for me and I'll fix it.

`Seq.unfold`. Here is how to write it:
```ocaml
# let map f = Seq.unfold (fun s -> s |> Seq.uncons |> Option.map (fun (x, y) -> (f x, y)));;
val map : ('a -> 'b) -> 'a Seq.t -> 'b Seq.t = <fun>
```
Here is a quick check:
```ocaml
# Seq.ints 0 |> map (fun x -> x * x) |> Seq.take 10 |> List.of_seq;;
- : int list = [0; 1; 4; 9; 16; 25; 36; 49; 64; 81]
```

> The function `Seq.uncons` returns the head and tail of a sequence if it is not empty or `None` otherwise.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The function `Seq.uncons` returns the head and tail of a sequence if it is not empty, or it otherwise returns `None`.
```

Using this function:
```ocaml
let input_line_opt chan =
  try Some (input_line chan, chan)
  with End_of_file -> close_in chan; None
```
It is possible to read a file using `Seq.unfold`:
```ocaml
"README.md" |> open_in |> Seq.unfold input_line_opt |> Seq.iter print_endline
```

> Although this can be an appealing style, bear in mind it does not prevent from
> taking care of open files. While the code above is fine, this one no longer is:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Although this can be an appealing style, bear in mind that it does not prevent
taking care of open files. While the code above is fine, this one no longer is:
```

```ocaml
"README.md" |> open_in |> Seq.unfold input_line_opt |> Seq.take 10 |> Seq.iter print_endline
```
Here, `close_in` will never be called over the input channel opened on `README.md`.

> ## Sequences are Functions

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Sequences Are Functions
```

Although this looks like a possible way to define the [Fibonacci
sequence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fibonacci_number):
```ocaml
# let rec fibs m n = Seq.cons m (fibs n (n + m));;
val fibs : int -> int -> int Seq.t = <fun>
```
It actually isn't. It's a non-ending recursion which blows away the stack.
```
# fibs 0 1;;
Stack overflow during evaluation (looping recursion?).
```
This definition is behaving as expected:
```ocaml
# let rec fibs m n () = Seq.Cons (m, fibs n (n + m));;
val fibs : int -> int -> int Seq.t = <fun>
```
It can be used to produce some Fibonacci numbers:
```ocaml
# fibs 0 1 |> Seq.take 10 |> List.of_seq;;
- : int list = [0; 1; 1; 2; 3; 5; 8; 13; 21; 34]
```

> Why is it so? The key difference lies in the recursive call `fibs n (n + m)`. In
> the former definition, the application is complete, `fibs` is provided all the
> arguments it expects; in the latter definition, the application is partial, the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Why is it so? The key difference lies in the recursive call `fibs n (n + m)`. In
the former definition, the application is complete because `fibs` is provided all the
arguments it expects. In the latter definition, the application is partial because the
```

`()` argument is missing. Since evaluation is
[eager](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evaluation_strategy#Eager_evaluation) in

> OCaml, in the former case, evaluation of the recursive call is triggered, and

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
OCaml, in the former case, evaluation of the recursive call is triggered and a
```

non-terminating looping occurs. In contrast, in the latter case, the partially
applied function is immediately returned as a
[closure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Closure_(computer_programming)).

Sequences are functions, as stated by their type:
```ocaml
# #show Seq.t;;
type 'a t = unit -> 'a Seq.node
```
Functions working with sequences must be written accordingly.
* Sequence consumer: partially applied function parameter
* Sequence producer: partially applied function result

> When code dealing with sequences does not behave as expected, in particular, if

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When code dealing with sequences does not behave as expected, like if
```

---
id: Sequences
title: Sequences
description: >
  Learn about one of OCaml's must used, built-in data types
category: "data-structures"
date: 2023-01-12T09:00:00-01:00
---

# Sequences

A sequence looks a lot like a list. However from a pragmatic perspective, one
should imagine it may be infinite. One way to look at a value of type `'a Seq.t`
is to consider it as an icicle, a frozen stream of data. To understand this
analogy, consider how sequences are defined in the standard libary:
```ocaml
type 'a node =
  | Nil
  | Cons of 'a * 'a t
and 'a t = unit -> 'a node
```

> This is the mutually recursive definition of two types; `Seq.node` which is almost

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This is the mutually recursive definition of two types: `Seq.node`, which is almost
```

the same as `list`:
```ocaml
type 'a list =
  | []
  | (::) of 'a * 'a list
```

> and `Seq.t` which is merely a type alias for `unit -> 'a Seq.node`. The whole

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
and `Seq.t`, which is merely a type alias for `unit -> 'a Seq.node`. The whole
```

point of this definition is the type of second argument of `Seq.Cons`, in `list`

> it is a list while in `Seq.t` it is function. Empty lists and empty sequence are

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
point of this definition is `Seq.Cons` second argument type; in `list`; in `list`
it is a list, while in `Seq.t`, it is a function. Empty lists and empty sequence are
```

defined the same way (`Seq.Nil` and `[]`). Non-empty lists are non-empty
sequences values are both pairs those former member is a piece of data. But non
empty sequence values have a sequence returning function as latter member

> instead of a list. That function is the frozen part of the sequence. When a

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
defined the same way (`Seq.Nil` and `[]`). Non-empty lists are non-empty
sequences. Values are both pairs, and the former member is a piece of data. But non-
empty sequence values have a sequence returning a function as a latter member
instead of a list. That function is the frozen part of the sequence. When a
```

I'm not sure if these suggestions change the meaning, but if they do, let's revisit this: 
"Non-empty lists are non-empty
sequences values are both pairs those former member is a piece of data. But non
empty sequence values have a sequence returning function as latter member
instead of a list." 

Are non-empty lists non-empty sequence values or just non-empty sequences.
If the former, the next part of the sentence has another verb without a subject/noun: "are"
Same with the last part: "those former member is a piece of data"
(also that would have to be "the former member" or "those former members"

The next, does the sequence return a function or does the sequence return `function`?

Author: This is too long and too complex, I must rewrite this to make it easier to digest. Thanks for pointing this. I'll probably reuse some of your text.

non-empty sequence is processed, access to data at the tip of the sequence is
immediate, but access to the rest of the sequence is deferred. To access the

> tail of non-empty sequence, it has to be microwaved, that is, the tail returning

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
tail of non-empty sequence, it has to be microwaved, i.e., the tail returning
```

function must be passed a `unit` value.

Having frozen-by-function tails explains why sequences should be considered
potentially infinite. Unless a `Seq.Nil` has been found in the sequence, one
can't say for sure if some will ever appear. The tail could be a stream of

> client requests in a server, readings from an embedded sensor or logs. All have

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
client requests in a server, readings from an embedded sensor, or logs. All have
```

unforseenable termination and should be considered infinite.

> Here is how to build seemingly infinite sequences of integers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Here is how to build seemingly infinite sequences of integers:
```

```ocaml
# let rec ints_from n : int Seq.t = fun () -> Seq.Cons (n, ints_from (n + 1));;
val ints_from : int -> int Seq.t = <fun>
# let ints = ints_from 0;;
val ints : ints Seq.t = <fun>
```

> The function `ints_from n` looks as if building the infinite sequence $(n; n +
> 1; n + 2; n + 3;...)$ while the value `ints` looks as if representing the
> infinite sequence $(0; 1; 2; 3; ...)$. In reality, since there isn't an infinite
> amount of distinct values of type `int`, those sequences are not increasing,
> when reaching `max_int` the values will circle down to `min_int`, actually they
> are ultimately periodic.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The function `ints_from n` looks as if building the infinite sequence `$(n; n +
1; n + 2; n + 3;...)$`, while the value `ints` looks as if representing the
infinite sequence `$(0; 1; 2; 3; ...)$`. In reality, since there isn't an infinite
amount of distinct values of type `int`, those sequences are not increasing,
when reaching `max_int` the values will circle down to `min_int`. Actually, they
are ultimately periodic.
```

> The OCaml standard library contains a module on sequences called `Seq`. It contains an `Seq.iter` function, which has the same behaviour as `List.iter`. Writting this

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The OCaml standard library contains a module on sequences called `Seq`. It contains an `Seq.iter` function, which has the same behaviour as `List.iter`. Writing this
```

```ocaml
# Seq.iter print_int ints;;
```

> in an OCaml toplevel actually means: “print integers forever” and you have to

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
in an OCaml toplevel actually means “print integers forever,” and you have to
```

id: Sequences
title: Sequences
description: >

>   Learn about one an OCaml's must used, built-in data types

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  Learn about an OCaml's most-used, built-in data types
```

## Prerequisites

You should be comfortable with writing functions over lists and options.

## Introduction

Sequences are very much like lists. However from a pragmatic perspective, one
should imagine they may be infinite. That's the key intuition to understanding
and using sequences.

One way to look at a value of type `'a Seq.t` is to consider it as a list, with

> a twist when it's not emprty: a frozen tail. To understand this analogy,

Reviewer: "empty"

```ocaml
# Seq.iter print_int (ints 0);;
```

> in an OCaml top-level means “print integers forever,” and you have to press

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
in an OCaml toplevel, this means “print integers forever,” and you have to press
```

> in an OCaml top-level, this means “print integers forever,” and you have to press

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
in an OCaml toplevel, this means “print integers forever,” and you have to press
```
no hyphen is correct in toplevel when speaking of OCaml's toplevel.

* a `unit` value

When executed, the function begins by unfreezing `seq` (that is, calling `seq
()`) and then pattern matching to look inside the available data. However, this
does not happen unless a `unit` parameter is passed to `take`. Writing `take 10

> seq` does not compute anything; it is a partial application and returns a

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
seq` does not compute anything. It is a partial application and returns a
```

- : int list = [0; 1; 1; 2; 3; 5; 8; 13; 21; 34]
```
Why is it so? The key difference lies in the recursive call `fibs n (n + m)`. In
the former definition, the application is complete because `fibs` is provided

> all the arguments it expects. In the latter definition, the application is

Reviewer: i think we should say: "is provided _with_ all the arguments" for the passive form, but maybe a native english speaker could confirm.

Author: @christinerose Help! ;-)

Reviewer 4: Agreed... "with all the arguments"

* Sequence consumer: partially applied function parameter
* Sequence producer: partially applied function result

> When code dealing with sequences does not behave as expected like if it is

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When code dealing with sequences does not behave as expected, like if it is
```

crashing or hanging, there's a fair chance a mistake like in the first

> definition of `fibs` was made.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
crashing or hanging, there's a fair chance a mistake (like in the first
definition of `fibs`) was made.
```
